### 2020.08.11

#### [i3flip]

We now use the output of **i3viswiz** instead of a custom AWK script. This made everything more reliable and `--move` function now works as expected in all types of layouts, (*not just tabbed and stacked as before*). Also added `--json`, `--verbose` and `--dryrun` options.

#### [i3fyra]

Now keeps track of the *virtual position* of a window. What this means is that if you have the following window rule defined in your **i3 config file**:  

```
for_window [instance=irssi class=URxvt] focus;exec --no-startup-id i3fyra --move A
```

And spawn a window matching the criteria it will get *moved* to the A container, which by default is the top-left container.  

```
AAB
AAD
CCD
```

Just as before the containers can be toggled and swapped by using `i3fyra --move DIRECTION` (where direction is up,down,left or right). And if the A container would have focus, and we execute `--move left` it would hide the B and D containers:

```
AAA
AAA
CCC
```

If we in this state would execute `--move right` (while the A container is focused), it would move the A and C container to the right and show the B and D containers to the left, but i3fyra will also internally rename all the containers:  

```
ABB
ABB
CDD
```

This used to mean that if we now would spawn a window matching our previously defined window rule, it would still get placed in the top-left container. This is where things are different now. In **i3list** there are four new keys, `[VPA],[VPB],[VPC] and [VPD]` which contains a number between zero and three (0-3). If i3list would get executed with the scenario above we would get the following results:  

```
i3list[VPA]=1
i3list[VPB]=0
i3list[VPC]=3
i3list[VPD]=2
```

the integers corresponds to the index of the hypothetical array `a=([0]=A [1]=B [2]=C [3]=D)`, and with this information we can see that when we want to send a window to container A, we test the virtual position, and see that A is positioned at 1 (*B*), be placed in **B** instead. In most cases this is the desired result, but sometimes it isn't, and for those cases one can use the `--force` option (which is new) to ignore the virtual positions. But this is probably nothing that anyone needs to worry about, and is more or less only used internally in **i3fyra**, **i3menu** and **i3run**. This transformation to virtual positions of the containers also works with the `--layout` option.

A lot of performance and stability improvements has been done in this update, and toggling layouts and containers now works much better and predictable.  

**Removed**  `--target` option. I found myself never using and it just created awkward cornercase issues.  

**Added** `--force`, `--array`, `--verbose` and `--dryrun` options.

#### [i3get]
Now uses *one* (well, sometimes two ;) single regular expression test in bash instead of parsing the json with awk, this made the script twice as fast and also, imo, easier to maintain and extend. I also added two new `--print` options, `s` for sticky status, and `e` for fullscreen status. But the most important change is done to the `--synk` functionality, which now uses `i3-msg -t subscribe` instead of a `while true; do sleep 10 ...`, and it makes everything much more responsive while at the same time being so much more efficient and nice on system recourses. Some output is different for example "marks" will now print the whole *JSON list* (`["mark1","mark2"...]`), previous behavior was to only show the first mark unqouted. If no value is found for a requested output (`--print`) a line looking like:  
`--i3get could not find: m`  
will be printed, previous behavior was to skip the line i think this new behavior is better especially if one relies on the order of the output lines.

#### [i3Kornhe]

fixed typo related issue that caused windows not being moved correctly. All types of containers are now resized and moved in pixel (px) unit. When **i3fyra** is executed from this script, the `--array` option is used.

#### [i3list]

No big changes to the script. Added `--json` options and watch script to help testing and development. As well as a few new keys to the output array:  

``` shell
i3list["XAB"] # family AB workspace
i3list["XAC"] # family AC workspace
i3list["XCD"] # family CD workspace
i3list["XBD"] # family BD workspace

i3list["VPA"] # virtual position A
i3list["VPB"] # virtual position B
i3list["VPC"] # virtual position C
i3list["VPD"] # virtual position D
```

#### [i3menu]

Added support for i3fyras virtual positions.

#### [i3run]

Only change since last version is to use `i3fyra --force --array ARRAY` to override the new virtual positions which are not needed with i3run because it already figures out the correct container.

#### [i3viswiz]

Support for `--json` option. A lot more information is printed to the first line, to make things easier for **i3fyra** and **i3flip**.
