### [i3Kornhe]

Reworked the script to now use a FIFO, which made
moving and resizing a lot more responsive with no
lag and much less stuttering.

### [i3viswiz]

Added debug vars for active window geometry (`ax,ay,aw,ah`).
And active workspace geometry (`sx,sy,sw,sh`)

### [i3king]

new options: `--conid`, `--print-commands`.  
`--conid CONID` will match a single window against the
rules and exit. `--print-commands` will print the commands
instead of executing them. 

**ON_CLOSE** directive added. Rules prefixed like this
will get triggered when windows are closed.

### [i3run]

Commands can now be entered after `--`.
The old way of specifying the command: (`--command|-e`)

``` shell
# old way
i3run --instance sublime_text --command 'subl && notify-send "sublime is started"'

# new way
i3run --instance sublime_text -- subl "&&" notify-send "sublime is started"
```

---

Fixed issue where windows had the wrong floating
state when being sent across workspaces (#99).

### [i3list]

Added ABW and TBW keys to output, with active/target
windows border width.

Fixed issue where wrong workspace ID was reported
on empty workspaces. Also if workspace is empty
now container/window info will NOT get printed.

### [i3fyra]

When using `--float` to toggle a floating window
to be tiled, we check if i3king is running and
if the window matches any of the rules. If a rule
matches the corresponding command is executed instead
of *just* making the window tiled.

### [i3menu]

Added `--list-directory DIRECTORY` option.
It is a shortcut to make a menu listing the filenames
in DIRECTORY and printing the full path to stdout.

### [i3get]

fixed issue where `--synk` option caused
the script to halt until a window event occured.
