.nh
.TH I3FYRA 1 2020\-01\-26 Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCi3fyra\fR \- An advanced, simple grid\-based tiling
layout

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS

.nf
i3fyra \-\-show|\-s CONTAINER
i3fyra \-\-float|\-a [\-\-target|\-t CRITERION]
i3fyra \-\-hide|\-z CONTAINER
i3fyra \-\-layout|\-l LAYOUT
i3fyra \-\-move|\-m DIRECTION|CONTAINER [\-\-speed|\-p INT]  [\-\-target|\-t CRITERION]
i3fyra \-\-help|\-h
i3fyra \-\-version|\-v

.fi
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The layout consists of four containers:

.PP
.RS

.nf
  A B
  C D

.fi
.RE

.PP
A container can contain one or more windows. The
internal layout of the containers doesn't matter.
By default the layout of each container is tabbed.

.PP
A is always to the left of B and D. And always
above C. B is always to the right of A and C. And
always above D.

.PP
This means that the containers will change names
if their position changes.

.PP
The size of the containers are defined by the
three splits: AB, AC and BD.

.PP
Container A and C belong to one family.
.br
Container B and D belong to one family.

.PP
The visibility of containers and families can be
toggled. Not visible containers are placed on the
scratchpad.

.PP
The visibility is toggled by either using \fIshow\fP
(\fB\fC\-s\fR) or \fIhide\fP (\fB\fC\-z\fR). But more often by moving
a container in an \fIimpossible\fP direction, (\fIsee
examples below\fP).

.PP
The \fBi3fyra\fP layout is only active on one
workspace. That workspace can be set with the
environment variable: \fB\fCi3FYRA\_WS\fR, otherwise the
workspace active when the layout is created will
be used.

.PP
The benefit of using this layout is that the
placement of windows is more predictable and
easier to control. Especially when using tabbed
containers, which are very clunky to use with
\fIdefault i3\fP\&.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-show\fR|\fB\fC\-s\fR CONTAINER
.br
Show target container. If it doesn't exist, it
will be created and current window will be put in
it. If it is visible, nothing happens.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-float\fR|\fB\fC\-a\fR
.br
Autolayout. If current window is tiled: floating
enabled If window is floating, it will be put in a
visible container. If there is no visible
containers. The window will be placed in a hidden
container. If no containers exist, container
'A'will be created and the window will be put
there.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-target\fR|\fB\fC\-t\fR CRITERION
.br
Criteria is a string passed to i3list to use a
different target then active window.

.PP
Example:
.br
\fB\fC$ i3fyra \-\-move B \-\-target "\-i sublime\_text"\fR
this will target the first found window with the
instance name \fIsublime\_text\fP\&. See i3list(1), for
all available options.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-hide\fR|\fB\fC\-z\fR CONTAINER
.br
Hide target containers if visible.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-layout\fR|\fB\fC\-l\fR LAYOUT
.br
alter splits Changes the given splits. INT is a
distance in pixels. AB is on X axis from the left
side if INT is positive, from the right side if it
is negative. AC and BD is on Y axis from the top
if INT is positive, from the bottom if it is
negative. The whole argument needs to be quoted.
Example:
.br
\fB\fC$ i3fyra \-\-layout 'AB=\-300 BD=420'\fR

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-move\fR|\fB\fC\-m\fR CONTAINER
.br
Moves current window to target container, either
defined by it's name or it's position relative to
the current container with a direction:
[\fB\fCl\fR|\fB\fCleft\fR][\fB\fCr\fR|\fB\fCright\fR][\fB\fCu\fR|\fB\fCup\fR][\fB\fCd\fR|\fB\fCdown\fR] If
the container doesnt exist it is created. If
argument is a direction and there is no container
in that direction, Connected container(s)
visibility is toggled. If current window is
floating or not inside ABCD, normal movement is
performed. Distance for moving floating windows
with this action can be defined with the \fB\fC\-\-speed\fR
option. Example: \fB\fC$ i3fyra \-\-speed 30 \-m r\fR Will
move current window 30 pixels to the right, if it
is floating.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-speed\fR|\fB\fC\-p\fR INT
.br
Distance in pixels to move a floating window.
Defaults to 30.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-help\fR|\fB\fC\-h\fR
.br
Show help and exit.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-version\fR|\fB\fC\-v\fR
.br
Show version and exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
If containers \fBA\fP,\fBB\fP and \fBC\fP are visible
but \fBD\fP is hidden or none existent, the visible
layout would looks like this:

.PP
.RS

.nf
  A B
  C B

.fi
.RE

.PP
If action: \fImove up\fP (\fB\fC\-m u\fR) would be called
when container \fBB\fP is active and \fBD\fP is
hidden. Container \fBD\fP would be shown. If action
would have been: \fImove down\fP (\fB\fC\-m d\fR), \fBD\fP would
be shown but \fBB\fP would be placed below \fBD\fP,
this means that the containers will also swap
names. If action would have been \fImove left\fP (\fB\fC\-m
l\fR) the active window in B would be moved to
container \fBA\fP\&. If action was \fImove right\fP (\fB\fC\-m
r\fR) \fBA\fP and \fBC\fP would be hidden:

.PP
.RS

.nf
  B B
  B B

.fi
.RE

.PP
If we now \fImove left\fP (\fB\fC\-m l\fR), \fBA\fP and \fBC\fP
would be shown again but to the right of \fBB\fP,
the containers would also change names, so \fBB\fP
becomes \fBA\fP, \fBA\fP becomes \fBB\fP and \fBC\fP
becomes \fBD\fP:

.PP
.RS

.nf
  A B
  A D

.fi
.RE

.PP
If this doesn't make sense, check out this
demonstration on youtube:
https://youtu.be/kU8gb6WLFk8

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fB\fCI3FYRA\_MAIN\_CONTAINER\fR
.br
This container will be the chosen when a
container is requested but not given. When using
the command autolayout (\fB\fC\-a\fR) for example, if the
window is floating it will be sent to the main
container, if no other containers exist. Defaults
to A. defaults to: A

.PP
\fB\fCI3FYRA\_WS\fR
.br
Workspace to use for i3fyra. If not set, the firs
workspace that request to create the layout will
be used. defaults to: 1

.PP
\fB\fCI3FYRA\_ORIENTATION\fR
.br
If set to \fB\fCvertical\fR main split will be \fB\fCAC\fR and
families will be \fB\fCAB\fR and \fB\fCCD\fR\&. Otherwise main
split will be \fB\fCAB\fR and families will be \fB\fCAC\fR and
\fB\fCBD\fR\&. defaults to: horizontal

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
\fB\fCbash\fR \fB\fCgawk\fR \fB\fCi3\fR \fB\fCi3list\fR \fB\fCi3gw\fR \fB\fCi3var\fR
\fB\fCi3viswiz\fR

.PP
budRich https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass
\[la]https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass\[ra]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
i3(1), i3list(1), i3gw(1), i3var(1), i3viswiz(1),
