.nh
.TH I3GET 1 2020\-08\-10 Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCi3get\fR \- prints info about a specific window to
stdout

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS

.nf
i3get [\-\-class|\-c CLASS] [\-\-instance|\-i INSTANCE] [\-\-title|\-t TITLE] [\-\-conid|\-n CON\_ID] [\-\-id|\-d WIN\_ID] [\-\-mark|\-m MARK] [\-\-titleformat|\-o TITLE\_FORMAT] [\-\-active|\-a] [\-\-synk|\-y] [\-\-print|\-r OUTPUT] [\-\-json TREE]      
i3get \-\-help|\-h
i3get \-\-version|\-v

.fi
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Search for \fB\fCCRITERIA\fR in the output of \fB\fCi3\-msg \-t
get\_tree\fR, return desired information. If no
arguments are passed, \fB\fCcon\_id\fR of active window is
returned. If there is more then one criterion, all
of them must be true to get results.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-class\fR|\fB\fC\-c\fR CLASS
.br
Search for windows with the given class

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-instance\fR|\fB\fC\-i\fR INSTANCE
.br
Search for windows with the given instance

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-title\fR|\fB\fC\-t\fR TITLE
.br
Search for windows with title.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-conid\fR|\fB\fC\-n\fR CON\_ID
.br
Search for windows with the given con\_id

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-id\fR|\fB\fC\-d\fR WIN\_ID
.br
Search for windows with the given window id

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-mark\fR|\fB\fC\-m\fR MARK
.br
Search for windows with the given mark

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-titleformat\fR|\fB\fC\-o\fR TITLE\_FORMAT
.br
Search for windows with the given titleformat

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-active\fR|\fB\fC\-a\fR
.br
Currently active window (default)

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-synk\fR|\fB\fC\-y\fR
.br
Synch on. If this option is included,  script
will wait till target window exist. (\fIor timeout
after 60 seconds\fP).

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-print\fR|\fB\fC\-r\fR OUTPUT
.br
\fIOUTPUT\fP can be one or more of the following
characters:

.TS
allbox;
l l l 
l l l .
\fB\fCcharacter\fR	\fB\fCprint\fR	\fB\fCreturn\fR
\fB\fCt\fR	title	string
\fB\fCc\fR	class	string
\fB\fCi\fR	instance	string
\fB\fCd\fR	Window ID	INT
\fB\fCn\fR	Con\_Id (default)	INT
\fB\fCm\fR	mark	JSON list
\fB\fCw\fR	workspace	INT
\fB\fCa\fR	is active	true or false
\fB\fCf\fR	floating state	string
\fB\fCo\fR	title format	string
\fB\fCe\fR	fullscreen	1 or 0
\fB\fCs\fR	sticky	true or false
\fB\fCu\fR	urgent	true or false
.TE

.PP
Each character in OUTPUT will be tested and the
return value will be printed on a new line. If no
value is found, \fB\fC\-\-i3get could not find:
CHARACTER\fR will get printed.

.PP
In the example below, the target window did not
have a mark:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ i3get \-r tfcmw
/dev/pts/9
user\_off
URxvt
\-\-i3get could not find: m
1

.fi
.RE

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-json\fR TREE
.br
Use TREE instead of the output of
.br
\fB\fCi3\-msg \-t get\_tree\fR

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-help\fR|\fB\fC\-h\fR
.br
Show help and exit.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-version\fR|\fB\fC\-v\fR
.br
Show version and exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
search for window with instance name
sublime\_text.  Request workspace, title and
floating state.

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ i3get \-\-instance sublime\_text \-\-print wtf 
1
\~/src/bash/i3ass/i3get (i3ass) \- Sublime Text
user\_off

.fi
.RE

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
\fB\fCbash\fR \fB\fCi3\fR

.PP
budRich https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass
\[la]https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass\[ra]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
bash(1), i3(1),
