.nh
.TH I3KING 1 2021-08-06 Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCi3king\fR - window ruler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS

.nf
i3king [--config|-c FILE] [--no-apply] [--no-restart]
i3king --apply|-a [--config|-c FILE]
i3king --json JSON [--verbose] [--dryrun] [--log FILE]
i3king --help|-h
i3king --version|-v

.fi
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
i3king will match all \fBnew\fP windows against the
rules defined in \fBI3_KING_RULE_FILE\fP
(\fI\fB\fC~/.config/i3king/rules\fR\fP). If a rule matches
the created window, the command associated with
the rule will get passed to \fB\fCi3-msg\fR\&.

.PP
The criterias a window can get matched against
are
.br
- \fBclass\fP

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBinstance\fP
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtitle\fP
.IP \(bu 2
\fBwindow_type\fP

.RE

.PP
It is also possible to use \fBGLOBAL\fP rules which
will match any windows. But each global rules can
have a \fBblack\fPlist with windows that will not
trigger that rule.

.PP
A variant of the GLOBAL rule is \fBDEFAULT\fP
rules, which works exactly like GLOBAL rules,
except they only get triggered if the window
didn't match any \fI"normal"\fP rules (regular GLOBAL
rules are normal).

.PP
Just like in the i3 config the \fB\fCset\fR directive is
available, so you can make variables.

.PP
Some built in magic variables are avaible in the
config:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
$INSTANCE
.IP \(bu 2
$CLASS
.IP \(bu 2
$CONID
.IP \(bu 2
$WINID

.RE

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.RS

.nf
GLOBAL \\
  class=URxvt instance=htop, \\
  instance=firefox
    title_format $INSTANCE

.fi
.RE

.PP
The above rule will set the title_format to the
instance name of all windows, except a URxvt
window with the instance name htop, and firefox
windows.

.PP
If $I3_KING_RULES_FILE doesn't exist, a example
rule file will get created. See that file for
details about the syntax.

.PP
If you used to have \fB\fCfor_window\fR rules that
triggered \fB\fCi3fyra --move\fR commands. It is
recommended to use the built in varialbe
\fB$CONID\fP when executing i3fyra:

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.RS

.nf
# old i3 version:
for_window [instance=qutebrowser] exec --no-startup-id i3fyra --move C

# with i3 king:
instance=qutebrowser
  exec --no-startup-id i3fyra --conid $CONID --move C

.fi
.RE

.PP
(\fIthe \fB\fC--conid\fR option in i3fyra is brand new\fP)

.PP
If the \fB\fCrestart\fR command is issued from i3, all
windows lose gets new container IDs, marks are
lost and other more or less strange things might
happen to the layout. Another thing is that all
open IPC sockets are closed and this means that
any ipc subscriber would have to be restarted.
\fBi3king\fP will, when the socket is broken, match
all known windows against the rules again, and
automatically restart itself. If you for some
reason don't want this behaviour, try \fB\fC--no-
restart\fR and/or \fB\fC--no-apply\fR options.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC--config\fR|\fB\fC-c\fR FILE
.br
Override the value of the Environment variable
\fBI3_KING_RULE_FILE\fP . Or the default value:
.br
\fB\fC~/.config/i3king/rules\fR

.PP
\fB\fC--no-apply\fR
.br
If this option is set it will not automatically
apply rules to all windows when the IPC socket is
broken (happens on a crash or on \fB\fCrestart\fR). This
option has no effect if \fB\fC--no-restart\fR is used.

.PP
\fB\fC--no-restart\fR
.br
When the IPC socket is broken, i3king will
automatically restart if this option is not set.

.PP
\fB\fC--apply\fR|\fB\fC-a\fR
.br
Match all existing windows against the rules and
exit.

.PP
\fB\fC--json\fR JSON
.br
Parse JSON instead of the output from: \fB\fCi3-msg -t
subscribe\fR

.PP
\fB\fC--verbose\fR
.br
More verbose output to \fBSTDERR\fP\&.

.PP
\fB\fC--dryrun\fR
.br
Parse rules but don't execute commands.

.PP
\fB\fC--log\fR FILE
.br
Same as verbose but the output is printed to FILE
instead.

.PP
\fB\fC--help\fR|\fB\fC-h\fR
.br
Show help and exit.

.PP
\fB\fC--version\fR|\fB\fC-v\fR
.br
Show version and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fB\fCXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR

.PP
defaults to: $HOME/.config

.PP
\fB\fCI3_KING_RULE_FILE\fR
.br
Path to file containing rules to be parsed.
defaults to: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/i3king/rules

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
\fB\fCbash\fR \fB\fCi3-msg\fR \fB\fCgawk\fR \fB\fCi3get\fR

.PP
budRich https://github.com/budlabs
\[la]https://github.com/budlabs\[ra]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
i3-msg(1),
