.nh
.TH I3MENU 1 2020\-08\-10 Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCi3menu\fR \- Adds more features to rofi when used
in i3wm

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS

.nf
i3menu [\-\-theme THEME] [\-\-layout|\-a LAYOUT] [\-\-include|\-i INCLUDESTRING] [\-\-top|\-t TOP] [\-\-xpos|\-x INT] [\-\-xoffset INT] [\-\-ypos|\-y INT] [\-\-yoffset INT] [\-\-width|\-w INT] [\-\-options|\-o OPTIONS] [\-\-prompt|\-p PROMPT]  [\-\-filter|\-f FILTER] [\-\-show MODE] [\-\-modi MODI] [\-\-target TARGET] [\-\-orientation ORIENTATION] [\-\-anchor INT] [\-\-height INT] [\-\-fallback FALLBACK]
i3menu \-\-help|\-h
i3menu \-\-version|\-v

.fi
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCi3menu\fR wraps the options i use the most with
\fB\fCrofi\fR  and make it easy to set different color
schemes and positions for the menu.

.PP
Every line in \fB\fCstdin\fR will be displayed as a menu
item.  The order will be the same as entered if
not \fB\fC\-\-top\fR is set.

.PP
The foundation for the appearance of the menus
are the themefiles
\fBi3menu.rasi\fP,\fBthemevars.rasi\fP, found in
I3MENU\_DIR (defaults to $XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME/i3menu),
but depending on the options  passed to \fB\fCi3menu\fR
certain values of the themefiles  will get
overwritten.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-theme\fR THEME
.br
If a \fB\&.rasi\fP file with same name as THEME exist
in \fB\fCI3MENU\_DIR/themes\fR, it's content will get
appended to theme file before showing the menu.

.PP
\fB\fC$ echo "list" | i3menu \-\-theme red\fR
.br
this will use the the file:
\fB\fCI3MENU\_DIR/themes/red.rasi\fR

.PP
If no matching themefile is found,
\fB\fCI3MENU\_DIR/themes/default.rasi\fR will be used
(and created if it doesn't exist).

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-layout\fR|\fB\fC\-a\fR LAYOUT
.br
This is where \fBi3menu\fP differs the most from
normal \fBrofi\fP behavior and is the only option
that truly depends on \fB\fCi3\fR, \fB\fCi3list\fR (and
\fBi3fyra\fP if the value is A|B|C|D). If this
option is not set, the menu will default to a
single line (\fIdmenu like\fP) menu at the top of the
screen. If however a value to this option is one
of the following:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCLAYOUT\fR	\fB\fCmenu location and dimensions\fR
mouse	T{
At the mouse position (requires 
T}
\fB\fCxdotool\fR)
window	The currently active window.
titlebar	T{
The titlebar of the currently active window.
T}
tab	T{
The tab (or titlebar if it isn't tabbed) of the currently active window.
T}
A,B,C or D	The 
\fBi3fyra\fPT{
 container of the same name if it is visible. If target container isn't visible the menu will be displayed at the default location.
T}
.TE

.PP
titlebar and tab LAYOUT will be displayed as a
single line (\fIdmenu like\fP) menu, and the other
LAYOUTS will be of vertical (\fIcombobox\fP) layout
with the prompt and entrybox above the list.

.PP
The position of the menu can be further
manipulated by using
\fB\fC\-\-xpos\fR,\fB\fC\-\-ypos\fR,\fB\fC\-\-width\fR,\fB\fC\-\-height\fR,\fB\fC\-\-orientation\fR,\fB\fC\-\-include\fR\&.

.PP
\fB\fC$ echo "list" | i3menu \-\-prompt "select: "
\-\-layout window \-\-xpos \-50 \-\-ypos 30\fR
.br
The command above would create a menu with the
same size and position as the current window, but
place it 50px to the left of the window, and 30px
below the \fIlower\fP of the window.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-include\fR|\fB\fC\-i\fR INCLUDESTRING
.br
INCLUDESTRING can be set to force which elements
of the menu to include. INCLUDESTRING can be one
or more of the following character:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fCchar\fR	\fB\fCelement\fR
\fBp\fP	prompt
\fBe\fP	entrybox
\fBl\fP	list
.TE

.PP
\fB\fCecho "list" | i3menu \-\-include le \-\-prompt
"enter a value: "\fR
.br
The command above will result in a menu without
the \fBprompt\fP element.

.PP
\fB\fCi3menu \-\-include pe \-\-prompt "enter a value: "\fR
.br
The command above will result in a menu without a
\fBlist\fP element. (just an inputbox).

.PP
It's also worth mentioning that \fBi3menu\fP adapts
to the objects it knows before creating the menu.
This means that if no input stream (list) exist,
no list element will be included, the same goes
for the prompt.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-top\fR|\fB\fC\-t\fR TOP
.br
If TOP is set, the input stream (LIST) will get
matched against TOP. Lines in LIST with an exact
MATCH of those in TOP will get moved to the TOP of
LIST before the menu is created.

.PP
\fB\fC$ printf '%s\\n' one two three four | i3menu
\-\-top "$(printf '%s\\n' two four)"\fR

.PP
will result in a list looking like this:
.br
\fB\fCtwo four one three\fR

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-xpos\fR|\fB\fC\-x\fR INT
.br
Sets the \fBX\fP position of the menu to INT. If
this option is set, it will override any automatic
position of the \fBX\fP coordinate.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-xoffset\fR INT
.br
Adds INT to the calculated \fBX\fP position of the
menu before it is displayed. XPOS can be either
positive or negative.

.PP
\fBEXAMPLE\fP
.br
If both \fB\fC\-\-layout\fR is set to \fB\fCwindow\fR and
\fB\fC\-\-xpos\fR is set to \fB\fC\-50\fR, the menu will be placed
50 pixels to the left of the active window but
have the same dimensions as the window.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-ypos\fR|\fB\fC\-y\fR INT
.br
Sets the \fBY\fP position of the menu to INT. If
this option is set, it will override any automatic
position of the \fBY\fP coordinate.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-yoffset\fR INT
.br
Adds INT to the calculated \fBY\fP position of the
menu before it is displayed. INT can be either
positive or negative.

.PP
\fBEXAMPLE\fP
.br
If both \fB\fC\-\-layout\fR is set to \fB\fCtitlebar\fR and
\fB\fC\-\-ypos\fR is set to \fB\fC50\fR, the menu will be placed
50 pixels below the active window.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-width\fR|\fB\fC\-w\fR INT
.br
Changes the width of the menu. If the argument to
\fB\fC\-\-width\fR ends with a \fB\fC%\fR character the width will
be that many percentages of the screenwidth.
Without \fB\fC%\fR absolute width in pixels will be set.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-options\fR|\fB\fC\-o\fR OPTIONS
.br
The argument is a string of aditional options to
pass to \fBrofi\fP\&.

.PP
\fB\fC$ i3menu \-\-prompt "Enter val: " \-\-options
'\-matching regex'\fR
.br
will result in a call to rofi looking something
like this:
.br
\fB\fCrofi \-p "Enter val: " \-matching regex \-dmenu\fR

.PP
Note that the \fBrofi\fP options: \fB\fC\-p, \-filter,
\-show, \-modi\fR \fIcould be\fP entered to as arguments

.PP
to \fB\fCi3menu \-\-options\fR, but it is recommended to
use: \fB\fC\-\-prompt\fR, \fB\fC\-\-filter\fR, \fB\fC\-\-show\fR and \fB\fC\-\-modi\fR
instead, since this will make i3menu optimize the
layout better.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-prompt\fR|\fB\fC\-p\fR PROMPT
.br
Sets the prompt of the menu to PROMPT.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-filter\fR|\fB\fC\-f\fR FILTER
.br
Sets the inputbox text/filter to FILTER. Defaults
to blank string.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-show\fR MODE
.br
This is a short hand for the \fBrofi\fP option
\fB\fC\-show\fR\&. So instead of doing this:
.br
\fB\fC$ i3menu \-o '\-show run'\fR , you can do this:
.br
\fB\fC$ i3menu \-\-show run\fR

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-modi\fR MODI
.br
This is a short hand for the \fBrofi\fP option
\fB\fC\-modi\fR\&. So instead of doing this:
.br
\fB\fC$ i3menu \-o '\-modi run,drun \-show run'\fR , you
can do this:
.br
\fB\fC$ i3menu \-\-modi run,drun \-\-show run\fR

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-target\fR TARGET
.br
TARGET is a string containing additional options
passed to \fBi3list\fP\&. This can be used to change
the target window when \fB\fC\-\-layout\fR is set to:
\fB\fCwindow\fR,\fB\fCtitlebar\fR or \fB\fCtab\fR\&.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-orientation\fR ORIENTATION
.br
This forces the layout of the menu to be either
vertical or horizontal. If \fB\fC\-\-layout\fR is set to
\fBwindow\fP, the layout will always be \fB\fCvertical\fR\&.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-anchor\fR INT
.br
Sets the "\fIanchor\fP" point of the menu. The
default is \fB1\fP\&. \fB1\fP means the top left corner,
\fB9\fP means the bottom right corner. Corner in
this context doesn't refer to the corners of the
screen, but the corners of the menu. If the anchor
is \fItop left\fP (\fB1\fP), the menu will \fIgrow\fP from
that point.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-height\fR INT
.br
Overrides the calculated height of the menu.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-fallback\fR FALLBACK
.br
FALLBACK can be a string of optional options the
will be tried if the \fIfirst layout\fP fails. A
layout can fail of three reasons:

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
layout is window or container, but no list is passed. If no fallback is set, \fBtitlebar\fP layout will get tried.
.IP "  2." 5
layout is container but container is not visible. If no fallback is set, \fBdefault\fP layout will get tried.
.IP "  3." 5
layout is window, tab or titlebar but no target window is found. If no fallback is set, \fBdefault\fP layout will get tried.

.RE

.PP
\fBExample\fP

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ echo \-e "one\\ntwo\\nthree" | i3menu \-\-layout A \-\-fallback '\-\-layout mouse \-\-width 300'

.fi
.RE

.PP
The example above will display a menu at the
mouse pointer if container A isn't visible.

.PP
Fallbacks can be nested, but make sure to
alternate quotes:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ echo \-e "one\\ntwo\\nthree" | i3menu \-\-layout A \-\-fallback '\-\-layout window \-\-fallback "\-\-layout mouse \-\-width 300"'

.fi
.RE

.PP
The example above would first try to display a
menu with \fB\fC\-\-layout A\fR if that fails, it will try
a menu with \fB\fC\-\-layout window\fR and last if no
target window can be found, the menu will get
displayed at the mouse pointer.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-help\fR|\fB\fC\-h\fR
.br
Show help and exit.

.PP
\fB\fC\-\-version\fR|\fB\fC\-v\fR
.br
Show version and exit

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fB\fCXDG\_CONFIG\_HOME\fR

.PP
defaults to: $HOME/.config

.PP
\fB\fCI3MENU\_DIR\fR
.br
Path to config directory. defaults to:
$XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME/i3menu

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
\fB\fCbash\fR \fB\fCgawk\fR \fB\fCrofi\fR \fB\fCi3list\fR \fB\fCxdotool\fR

.PP
budRich https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass
\[la]https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass\[ra]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
bash(1), awk(1), rofi(1), rofi\-theme(1), i3list(1), xdotool(1),
