.nh
.TH I3RUN 1 2021-05-28 Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCi3run\fR - Run, Raise or hide windows in i3wm

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS

.nf
CRITERIA [OPTIONS] [-- COMMAND]

.fi
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
i3run will try to find a window matching a
criteria. Criteria is specified with one or more
command line options:
.br
\fB\fC--class , --instance , --title , --conid ,
--winid\fR
.br
All criteria specified must match, if multiple
windows match all criteria one will be chosen at
random.

.PP
Depending on the state of target window different
actions will apply:

.TS
allbox;
l l 
l l .
\fB\fC\fBtarget window state\fP\fR	\fB\fC\fBaction\fP\fR
T{
Active and not handled by i3fyra
T}
	send to scratchpad
Active and handled by i3fyra	send container to scratchpad
Handled by i3fyra and hidden	\fBshow\fP container
T{
Not handled by i3fyra and hidden
T}
	\fBshow\fP window
Not on current workspace	T{
goto workspace and focus window
T}
T{
Not active, not hidden, on workspace
T}
	focus window
Not found	execute COMMAND
.TE

.PP
Hidden in this context,  means that window is on
the scratchpad. Show in this context means,  move
window to current workspace.

.PP
With \fB\fC--nohide\fR set windows/containers will not
be sent to the scratchpad by \fBi3run\fP\&.

.PP
With \fB\fC--summon\fR windows not on current workspace
will be sent to current workspace instead of
switching workspace.

.PP
COMMAND is everything after -- , or the argument
to \fB\fC--command\fR\&.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC--instance\fR|\fB\fC-i\fR INSTANCE
.br
Search for windows with the given INSTANCE

.PP
\fB\fC--summon\fR|\fB\fC-s\fR
.br
Instead of switching workspace, summon window to
current workspace

.PP
\fB\fC--nohide\fR|\fB\fC-g\fR
.br
Don't hide window/container if it's active.

.PP
\fB\fC--class\fR|\fB\fC-c\fR CLASS
.br
Search for windows with the given CLASS

.PP
\fB\fC--rename\fR|\fB\fC-x\fR OLD_NAME
.br
If the search criteria is \fB\fC--instance\fR, the
window with instance: \fIOLDNAME\fP will get a new
instance name matching the criteria when it is
created (\fIneeds \fB\fCxdotool\fR\fP).

.PP
\fBNB\fP
.br
This option will not work reliably when using
multiple search criteria. When you want to do that
instead use:
.br
\fB\fC--rename-instance , --rename-class ,
--rename-title\fR .

.PP
.RS

.nf
i3run --instance budswin --rename sublime_main -- subl

# when the command above is executed:
# a window with the instance name: "budswin" will be searched for.
# if no window is found the command: "subl" will get executed,
# and when a window with the instance name: "sublime_main" is found,
# the instance name of that window will get renamed to: "budswin"

# the example below, will not work properly:  
i3run --title bud --instance budswin --rename sublime_main -- subl

# it will start like the first example, but if it
# doesnt find the custom instance budswin, it will
# try to search for a window with the TITLE sublime_main

# do this instead:  
i3run --title bud --instance budswin --rename-instance sublime_main -- subl

.fi
.RE

.PP
\fB\fC--title\fR|\fB\fC-t\fR TITLE
.br
Search for windows with the given TITLE

.PP
\fB\fC--rename-instance\fR OLD_NAME
.br
explicitly rename the instance.

.PP
\fB\fC--rename-class\fR OLD_NAME
.br
explicitly rename the class.

.PP
\fB\fC--rename-title\fR OLD_NAME
.br
explicitly rename the title.

.PP
\fB\fC--conid\fR|\fB\fC-n\fR CON_ID
.br
Search for windows with the given CON_ID

.PP
\fB\fC--force\fR|\fB\fC-f\fR
.br
Execute COMMAND (\fB\fC--command\fR), even if the window
already exist. But not when hiding a window.

.PP
\fB\fC--FORCE\fR|\fB\fC-F\fR
.br
Execute COMMAND (\fB\fC--command\fR), even if the window
already exist.

.PP
\fB\fC--winid\fR|\fB\fC-d\fR CON_ID

.PP
\fB\fC--command\fR|\fB\fC-e\fR COMMAND
.br
the recommended way of launching commands is to
do: \fB\fCi3run ... -- COMMAND\fR

.SH Example
.PP
.RS

.nf
# with --command:
i3run --instance sublime_text --command 'subl && notify-send "sublime is started"'

# with -- (recomended)
i3run --instance sublime_text -- subl "&&"" notify-send "sublime is started"

.fi
.RE

.PP
Notice that you will need to \fIescape\fP some shell
builtins that effect the commandline (\fB\fC&&\fR, \fB\fC;\fR,
\fB\fC&\fR, \fB\fC|\fR, \fB\fC||\fR ...) in the second example.

.PP
\fB\fC--mouse\fR|\fB\fC-m\fR
.br
The window will be placed on the location of the
mouse cursor when it is created or shown. (\fIneeds
\fB\fCxdotool\fR\fP)

.PP
\fB\fC--help\fR|\fB\fC-h\fR
.br
Show help and exit.

.PP
\fB\fC--version\fR|\fB\fC-v\fR
.br
Show version and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fB\fCI3RUN_BOTTOM_GAP\fR
.br
Distance from the bottom edge of the screen to
show floating windows. This only has effect When
\fB\fC--mouse\fR option is used and the window needs to
be autoadjusted not to be rendered \fIoutisde\fP the
workspace with the mouse cursor on.

.PP
defaults to: 10

.PP
\fB\fCI3RUN_TOP_GAP\fR

.PP
defaults to: 10

.PP
\fB\fCI3RUN_LEFT_GAP\fR

.PP
defaults to: 10

.PP
\fB\fCI3RUN_RIGHT_GAP\fR

.PP
defaults to: 10

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
\fB\fCbash\fR \fB\fCgawk\fR \fB\fCi3list\fR \fB\fCi3get\fR \fB\fCi3var\fR \fB\fCxdotool\fR
\fB\fCi3fyra\fR \fB\fCi3\fR

.PP
budRich https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass
\[la]https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass\[ra]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
bash(1), awk(1), i3list(1), i3get(1), i3var(1), xdotool(1), i3fyra(1),
