.nh
.TH I3ZEN 1 2021-10-26 Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fB\fCi3zen\fR - zentered container, full focus

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.RS

.nf
i3zen [--width INT] [--height INT] [--xpos|-x INT] [--ypos|-y INT] [--mark|-m MARK] [--workspace|-w WORKSPACE]
i3zen --verbose [--dryrun]
i3zen --help|-h
i3zen --version|-v

.fi
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
move current window to a "clean" workspace, put
it in a centered, floating tabbed container.

.PP
triggering the command on a window that is
already "zen" will move it back to the workspace
it came from.

.SH origin
.PP
https://www.reddit.com/r/i3wm/comments/6x8ajm/oc_i3zen/

.PP
https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/comments/6xbdtk/oci3_i3zen/

.PP
https://gist.github.com/budRich/16765b5468201aa734d0ec1c0870fd0c

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC--width\fR INT
.br
Sets the width of the zen container to INT
percent of the workspace width when it is created.

.PP
\fB\fC--height\fR INT
.br
Sets the height of the zen container to INT
percent of the workspace height when it is
created.

.PP
\fB\fC--xpos\fR|\fB\fC-x\fR INT
.br
If set the zen container will be placed at INT
pixels to the right of the left edge of the
workspace instead of the center when it is
created. If INT is negative, it will be placed INT
pixels to the left of the right edge.

.PP
\fB\fC--ypos\fR|\fB\fC-y\fR INT
.br
If set the zen container will be placed at INT
pixels to the below the top edge of the workspace
instead of the center when it is created. If INT
is negative, it will be placed INT pixels to above
of the bottom edge.

.PP
\fB\fC--mark\fR|\fB\fC-m\fR MARK
.br
If not set the \fIzen container\fP will be marked
\fBcenterzen\fP\&. If set it will instead be marked
MARK when it is created. This option can be used
to create multiple zen containers.

.PP
\fB\fC--workspace\fR|\fB\fC-w\fR WORKSPACE
.br
If this option is not set the \fIzen container\fP
will be created on a vacant workspace (the highest
numbered workspace + 1).

.PP
\fB\fC--verbose\fR
.br
Show verbose output on stderr during execution

.PP
\fB\fC--dryrun\fR
.br
Don't execute any commands

.PP
\fB\fC--help\fR|\fB\fC-h\fR
.br
Show help and exit.

.PP
\fB\fC--version\fR|\fB\fC-v\fR
.br
Show version and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fB\fCXDG_RUNTIME_DIR\fR

.PP
defaults to: /tmp

.PP
\fB\fCI3_KING_PID_FILE\fR

.PP
defaults to: $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/i3ass/i3king.pid

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
\fB\fCbash\fR \fB\fCi3list\fR \fB\fCi3var\fR \fB\fCi3king\fR

.PP
budRich https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass
\[la]https://github.com/budlabs/i3ass\[ra]

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
i3list(1), i3var(1), i3king(1),
